So, numbers in Python,
these are all integers.
And we can always verify
that by calling type.
There are also floats in Python so
numbers that have decimal points
Something that's a little
tricky that might bite you.
This is a valid float.
You don't need to have
a decimal point after.
You shouldn't really define
your floats like this.
It's kind of confusing.
But if you see this in Python code,
just know that's not a syntax error.
And then there are also complex numbers.
And these end with the character
j I'm not a math person.
I don't think I've ever used complex
numbers in my Python code, but
they're there if you need them.
Because like you saw earlier, these
types are just objects under the hood.
You can also declare them by calling
the constructor for that built in type.
So I can say, into five I can
also pass in a string in here.
Same thing for float if I pass in,
let's say an integer into the float
constructor will return a float back.
Generally you never want to do this in
your code unless you are converting
between types.
But this is something that you might see.
One example of converting
between types as if you're using
an old style string formatting.
If you try to, for example,
concatenate when we'll talk about
strings a little bit later.
A string with a number you're going to
get a type error that says you can only
concatenate strings and not stings.
So in this case, you can pass in
the number five to the stir method.
Again, with modern Python
string formatting,
you won't really ever need to do this,
but could happen.
You can do all the standard
mathematical operations that
you might expect with Python numbers.
You can add them up, and
you can multiply them.
You can divide them.
Note that if you divide two integers,
the type that you get back
is going to be a float.
If you want to do integer division,
you need to use 2 slashes and
that will get you an integer back.
You can also raise to the power.
So let's say we have x equals 4 and
y equals 3 we can say x to the power
of 3 or x to the power of y.
So everything that you might expect,
and then you can also use
parentheses to make sure that things
happen in the order that you want.
And that is all valid Python code.
Python has a few more built in
methods that are useful for numbers.
And you might hear me say built
in methods, what does that mean?
You saw earlier in our tour of
a Python program that I had to import
the request module.
Later on, we'll see how to import
modules from the standard library.
When I'm using these built ins,
I don't need to import anything
they're just available in Python.
And the three helpful methods for
math are a min and max or round.
So for
min you could pass in some values, And
it will always return
the smallest of them.
The same is true for
Mac's except the opposite.
This will return 10 thousand because
it is the largest number in that list.
You can also use round
to round down decimals.
Or round them up.
There are built in Boolean types in Python
just like we saw that none is a keyword.
In Python the Boolean types are defined
with uppercase true and lowercase false.
These are keywords.
Something of note in Python
that I've seen trip people up.
Again in Python, everything is an object.
These Boolean are objects and in fact,
under the hood they
are subclasses of integers.
And that means that under the hood
true has a value of one and
false has a value of zero.
Don't do this Please, but because of that,
you can actually add these together or
do anything, but
you could do to numbers,
don't do this but Python fun fact.